# ASSESSMENT 5: Rails Practical Questions

1. What is the command to create a new Rails application with a Postgres database?

$ rails new app_name -d postgresql -T

2. Oops, I forgot to add a foreign key to my model. Describe the steps to remedy this mistake.

1) Go to the default terminal if not there already
2) Create a migration that would add a new column for the foreign key
    $ rails generate migration add_foreign_key_column
3) Go to the new .rb file and input the 'add_column' command inside the 'def change' and 'end'
    add_column :table, :foreign_key, :integer
3) Return to the default terminal, and run the migrate command
    $ rails db:migrate


3. What is the command to generate a Rails model for a person table with columns named shirt, pants, and shoes?

$ rails g model Person shirt:string pants:string shoes:string

4. What is the naming convention for generating a Rails model? What is the naming convention for the table that is generated with this command?

The naming convention for generating a Rails model is Pascal case.
The naming convention for the table generated by the command is snake_case.

5. A Rails application is going to have two models. One is called Library and one is called Book. A library will have many books and a book will belong to a library. Which model would contain the foreign key? What would the foreign key column be named?

Book would contain the foreign key. The foreign key column would be named 'library_id'.

6. What is the schema file in a Rails application? Can you modify the schema directly? Why or why not?

The schema file represents the current state of the database. It should not be modified directly as it is only a "representation" of the database, not the actual database itself. Modifying it directly will not make changes to the database.